University of Bahrain
College of Information Technology
Department of Information Systems
B.Sc. In Cyber security
Project Title
Prepared by
FORMTEXT 1st Student name FORMTEXT 20010000
FORMTEXT 2nd Student name FORMTEXT 20010001
FORMTEXT 3rd Student name FORMTEXT 20010003
For
ITXX 499
Senior Project
Academic Year 20xx-20xx-Semester x
Project Supervisor:  FORMTEXT Enter Supervisor Name
FORMTEXT Co-supervisor name
Date of Submission
Abstract
// The word “Abstract” should be on the center of the page in Time New Roman (TNR) 18 points bold font. The text in the abstract should be in TNR 12 points. All text is justified. The Abstract should be on a separate page by itself. Apply the pre-defined style “Chapter”.
// The Abstract is a 50-150 words that gives a precise and concise summary of the work accomplished including any performance measures. The first sentence in the Abstract is the most important and should be chosen carefully, e.g. The abstract should allow the reader who is unfamiliar with the work to gain a swift and accurate impression of what the project is about, how it arose and what has been achieved.
Tip: The Abstract should contain the project definition, problem statement, summary of the analysis/implementation, results of the project with testing results and measurement results.
// Read then remove the paragraphs that starts with “//”
// Make sure that you have read all comments in this template before you delete them
// Remove all tables and figures included in this template that are not related to your project before printing out the report.
// Remove all appendices included in this template and add your appendices.
Acknowledgments
// The word “Acknowledgments” should be on the center of the page in Time New Roman (TNR) 18 points bold font. The text in the abstract should be in TNR 12 points. All text is justified. The Abstract should be on a separate page by itself. Apply the pre-defined style “Chapter”.
// This section includes any words of appreciation and gratitude to the people helped with accomplishing the project. Keep the acknowledgement short.
Tip: Consider thanking your supervisors, family and people who help you through the project
Table of Contents
TOC \t "Chapter,1,Main Sections,1,Heading 1,2,Heading 2,3,Heading 3,4" \hAbstractii
Acknowledgmentsiii
List of Tablesv
List of Figuresvi
Chapter 1 Introduction1
1.1Problem Statement1
1.2Project Objectives1
1.3Relevance/Significance of the project1
1.4Report Outline1
Chapter 2 Literature Review2
Chapter 3 Project Management3
3.1Process Model3
3.2Risk Management3
3.3Project activities Plan3
Chapter 4 Requirement Collection and Analysis4
4.1Requirement Elicitation4
4.2System Requirements4
4.3System Models4
Chapter 5 System Design6
Chapter 6 System Implementation and Testing7
Chapter 7 Conclusion and Future Work8
References9
Appendix A Compact Disk material10
Appendix B Format Guideline11
List of Tables
TOC \c "Table" \h Table 1: The system models.PAGEREF _Toc533342115 \h4
Table 2: The standards for Page and margin setup.PAGEREF _Toc533342116 \h11
Table 3: Fonts and Styles.PAGEREF _Toc533342117 \h12
List of Figures
TOC \c "Figure" \h Figure 1: Main body chapter titlePAGEREF _Toc527290265 \h12
Chapter 1Introduction
// The word “Chapter 1: Introduction” should be on the center of the page in Time New Roman (TNR) 18 points bold font. The text in the chapter should be in TNR 12 points. All text is justified. Apply the pre-defined style “Chapter”.
// This chapter introduces the reader to the subject area in the project. It should introduce the problem and its formulation. The thesis statement will be useful here. Background information may include a brief history and review of the literature already available on the topic so that you are able to ‘place’ your research in the field. Additional information about the importance of this project and how it is significant could be added here. Some brief details of your methods and an outline of the structure of the report.
The following subsections are examples for the subsections that can be added in this chapter
Problem Statement
// Present the statement of the problem that is going to be investigated throughout the project, the problem can be divided into two to three sub-problems to be able to easily solve the whole problem.
Tip: Support your problem statement with evidences, you might cite some references from research or news paper. For example, If you tried to solve a traffic jam problem, you might cite if the number of cars usage through years has been increased.
Project Objectives
// The aim and objectives of the project are outlined to provide a short description of what the researcher intends to achieve, in addition, a statement of the limitations of the scope of the research is also presented.
Tip: here, you need to address the scope of the project. Consider address outline of your project (what the final result will be look like), The target audience : (is it for all people, specific category ..etc), impact: world wide, regional, or something local in your country.  Then describe limitation: (things might be able to solve, assumptions : what things that you skip them are not part of the project scope.
Relevance/Significance of the project
// The relevance and the significance of the project should be synthesized in this section.
Tip: This one could be written as a bullet points, it should be the main things that potentially new that you will achieve them from your project. In research paper, this section called “Contributions” .
For example, if the project about online payment:
1. Our project uses a secure hardware (TEE) to ensure the mobile payment done securely.
2. Our project detect fraud payment using log analysis and machine learning algorithm.
Report Outline
// Briefly outline the remainder of this report in a paragraph. For example, Chapter 2 scans the literature related to the studied problem. Chapter 3 describes the research model adopted in the project and the hypotheses to be tested. Etc.
Chapter 2Literature Review
// The main reason behind having a review of related literature is to position the study in the context of what has been done before, what is currently happening, and how research in this area is conducted. To start, provide a brief history of previous researches and practices, and then review the current theory and practices. Critical writing is about providing reasons to support an argument. Therefore, discuss the sources, identify their points of view, provide arguments, support arguments with evidence, and finally draw conclusions and present your point of view in a structured, clear, well-reasoned way. The structure of the chapter is open to students. This chapter needs to be carefully structured to produce a good introduction to the project and shows the location of the project within the literature.
Tip: If you are doing a research, It is important to talk about research papers here. In general you can put similar systems as well. Talk about the work (research/system) in summary what is it? What is the core function(s) that solve the problem that you address in the previous section and explain how the solve it, describe their advantages (strengths) and disadvantages (weaknesses). After listing (3 at minium (research/system), summary your finding, what is good, what is weak, what can you adopt in your system ...etc.
Chapter 3Project Management
// This chapter highlights the project activities to meet the project requirements. It includes the process model as a set of related activities that leads to the production of the software/system. In addition, this chapter identifies the risks that may threaten the project that is being developed. The chapter usually ends with the project activity plan most commonly created by “Gants Charts” and “Project Tasks” of phases of the project.
The following subsections are examples for the subsections that can be added in this chapter
Process Model
// This section describes the software process model which is also known as Software Development Life Cycle model. It introduces the selected model for the development process with justifications.
Tip: Choose one SDLC and justify your selection. What it fit your project. You can talk a bit about how did you apply it in your project. (Notable SLDC : Agile and watefall).
Risk Management
// This section identifies the potential risks that may be faced during the project and the necessary plans to minimize them.
Tip: You can have it as a table, Potential risk, level of risk (low, medium, high), how to minimize it.
Example,
Risk : a developer left the team
Level: High
Risk plan: We ensure that each member is backup of another member by knowing his task.
Project activities Plan
// This section breaks down the project into different activities according to defined period of time needed to deliver the system.
project
Tip: Weekly breakdown using Excel and draw Gantt chart
Chapter 4Requirement Collection and Analysis
// The requirement gathering is an essential part of any project management. It is about creating a clear and agreed set of customer requirements that allow to deliver a system according to the customer requirements.
// This chapter discusses the functional and non-functional requirements of the system. It also discusses the data flow diagram and the use case diagram of the system.
// The chapter should start with an introduction followed by eventually the following subsections.
Requirement Elicitation
// This section describes the methods of collecting the system requirement such as interviews, questionnaires, observations and the quantitative and qualitative data analysis.
Tip: One should be enough, it is based on your project. I recommend to do an interview even if your project does need it, just to meet expert and talk to them about your project to better understand the domain of your project.
System Requirements
// This section describes the behavior and features of software applications which consists of both functional and non-functional requirements.
Tip: For functional, you need to list at least five functions in your systems with explanation. Ensure to list the core one only. Here are two examples for a library system.
[Good]
1. Search books : The system allows users to search for books using several filter and custom filters.
2. book booking: The system allows users to book books online with least interaction possible.
…
[Weak] Because the are not focus on the core or relatively not strongly focus on the core.
1. Login : The System allows user to login.
2. Logout: The system allows user to logout.
3. Setting: The system allow to change color of the UI. ← it is nice feature but not the main focus of a library system.
For non-functional, you need address also at least five of them and how you employ them in your project.
For example,
Security : The system have CSRF token in all forms to ensure protections against CSRF attacks.
User- friendly:  The system use the CSS framework Bootstrap that used in Twitter to give users a familiar experience.
System Models
// This section describes different system models, which can be implemented based on your usage.
- System architecture : // This section describes the components of your system (server, database, iot ..etc) as a  diagram which explains how they connected in a system. There is no fixed standard to follow.
- Entity Relationship Diagram
// You illustrate here the information of a system’s entities and relationships between those entities. Only if a relational database is used. If you are using NoSQL than , you need to address the dictionary data as a diagram as well. You can skip this section, if you don’t have a database but talk to your supervisor about it.
Chapter 5System Design
// This is a fundamental chapter in the report where the aspects of the system design is discussed and evaluated. This chapter could include database schema, user interface design, procedure design, flow of the system, algorithms, etc.
// This chapter should start with an introduction followed by sections and eventually subsections.
database scheme : Main tables or all of them. Add explanation for them
Interfaces : Sketch or UI frame, 5 is good, focus on core functions. Add explanation for them. You can also make it as a story, show the flow by explaining the interfaces. What are the navigation options and so on. (Example, this is a login a page, the user can enter his credential to login, if the user forgot them, he can click in forget password link which will instruct him on to reset it. The UI address what credential require to make it easy for the user).
algorithm: write a pseudo code for your core functions and explain them.
Chapter 6System Implementation and Testing
// This chapter should start with an introduction followed by sections and eventually subsections.
6.1 System implementation
// This section describes the details of the system implementation into a working prototype. A description of how the different components are selected and integrated should also be included. Also, a justification of the implementation decisions such as used tools, hardware/software tools, algorithms, programming languages, cloud providers etc. should be provided. Also, screenshot with explanation from your system and the flow f the system.
6.2 Evaluation and testing
// This chapter discusses the testing phases of the implemented system and reports the obtained results. A discussion of the results and comparison with similar systems from the literature (chapter 2). A highlight of the strengths and weaknesses of the proposed system has to be included as part of this chapter. Tip: Include security testing (from ethical hacking, pen-testing courses or any security related course) and measuring performance for certain procedures of your system.
You can put the testing as a table
- Testing criteria: Testing SQL injection
- Target: Login form (or all forms)
- Result: Pass or failed.
- Explanation:
You need to ensure that all your system pass mentioned test.
Another approach, you can use “code review” tool to check if any vulnerability exist and attach the report and explain the key points.
For performance measuring, select core functions and measure their run time in seconds. Address what computer you use, number of Core in CPU, rams ..etc. Explain if the function will work with large number of samples/users given the results you get.
Chapter 7Conclusion and Future Work
// The conclusion chapter should describe what have been done during the project as design, implementation and testing. Moreover, it should present a summary of the main results and findings and states the significances of them.
// This chapter can also include discussion about the project limitations, the implications of the project, and ideas for future work.
Tip: summary of your work including results and limitation  + future work
References
// Insert here the references list.
// Any material used in the report that is taken from other sources MUST be referenced, such as ideas, concepts, phrases, information, processes or protocols, tables and figures, etc. You should follow the Harvard referencing style (click here for a guideline).
Appendix ACompact Disk material
// Remove this appendix before submission.
// A CD should be attached with the report. The CD should include:
The project report (.docx and .pdf formats)
The project poster (.ppt format).
Arabic Abstract (.docx format) as a separate file (Do not include in the report).
Pictures, and demo videos related to the project
The codes and sketches used in the project.
The CD should be clearly labeled with the
Title of the project
Students’ names and students’ IDs
Supervisor(s)’ name(s)
Academic year and semester of defending the project.
Appendix BFormat Guideline
This appendix contains the guideless for editing the senior project report.
Page size and margins
Follow  REF _Ref511667524 \h Error: Reference source not found for the details of page setup
Table SEQ Table \* ARABIC1: The standards for Page and margin setup.
Setting
Note
Page size
A4
Page orientation
Portrait (except for some pages with a wide table or figure)
Top margin
2.5 cm
Bottom margin
2.5 cm
Left margin
3 cm
Right margin
2 cm
Font Styles
For different items of the report there are different font styles. This document has been set with the main required styles. Use  REF _Ref511164276 \h Error: Reference source not found to see all the different setup required for the report with their pre-set styles. The pre-set styles (we going to refer to them later as “styles”) are set to make your report formatting easy.
To set a style for certain title, heading, or paragraph just select the item and select the proper style from the style pane. For more information on how to apply styles click here, then read and watch the available video.
Table SEQ Table \* ARABIC2: Fonts and Styles.
Usage
Style Name
Font/size
Type
Alignment
Spacing
Indention
Other
Main title
Title
TNR/22
Bold
Center
Single
-
Subtitle
Subtitle
TNR/18
Bold
Center
Single
-
Main sections
Main Sections
TNR/18
Bold
Center
Single
After: 12pt
-
In a new page
Table of contents title
General Titles
TNR/18
Bold
Center
Single
After: 12pt
-
In a new page
Chapter Titles
Chapter
TNR/18
Bold
Center
Single
After: 12pt
-
In a new page
1st level heading
Heading 1
TNR/14
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 6 pt After: 3 pt
-
numbered
2nd level heading
Heading 2
TNR/13
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 3 pt After: 3 pt
Before: 5 pt
Numbered
3rd level heading
Heading 3
TNR/12
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 3 pt After: 3 pt
Before: 10 pt
Numbered
4th level heading
Heading 4
TNR/11
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 3 pt After: 3 pt
Before: 13 pt
Appendix Header 1
App heading 1
TNR/14
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 6 pt After: 3 pt
-
Not numbered
Appendix Header 2
App heading 2
TNR/13
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 3 pt After: 3 pt
Before: 5 pt
Not numbered
Appendix Header 3
App heading 3
TNR/12
Bold
Left
Single
Before: 3 pt After: 3 pt
Before: 10 pt
Not numbered
Regular text
Body text
TNR/11
Regular
Left
Spacing:1.5
Before: 3 pt After: 3 pt
Captions
Caption
TNR/9
Italic
Center
Single
After: 10 pt
Coding
Code
Courier/10
Regular
Left
Spacing:1.15
Before: 9 pt After: 9 pt
Before: 20 pt
After: 20 pt
No spacing between similar paragraph
Font is Times New Roman for all fonts in  REF _Ref511164276 \h Error: Reference source not found except for coding
Coding
The “code” style is set to be applied to any code inserted in the Report. Check the following code.
print "Hello World!"
print "Hello Again"
print "I like typing this."
print "This is fun."
print 'Yay! Printing.'
print "I'd much rather you 'not'."
print 'I "said" do not touch this.'
This style uses Courier as the font; it is 10 pt in size; uses spacing of 1.15; moreover, it adds 3 pt spacing before and 3 pt spacing after the code (only between the code and different style of text).
Captions
Use MS Word captions to add captions to tables, figures, equations, and other objects. The table captions should be above the table, and for figures it should be below the figure.
Insert Captions
Click here for guide on how add captions Word.
Cross-referencing
Click here for a guide on how to create cross-reference.
Updating the tables
Before printing the report, make sure the all the tables on the front matter (table of contents, of tables, and of figures) are updated. The contents of those tables are updated automatically. Click here for more information about how to update those tables.
Titles of main sections/chapters
All main titles are similar in the font settings, which are 18-pt bold centered TNR, and they differ in other setup settings. Therefore, there are different styles for different titles. The following subsections describes those formats.
Front matter and References
These are all titles of the main sections coming at the front matter of this report and before the Introduction chapter and the reference section after the conclusion chapter. These sections include the acknowledgment, table of contents, and table of figures. The titles of all those sections should be of a single line. All titles of those titles, except “table of contents”, uses “Main Sections” as their style. However, the title “table of contents” uses “General Titles” as its style.
Chapter titles
These are at the main headings of the main body sections; they start with the Introduction chapter and ends with the Conclusion chapter. The used style for chapter titles is called “Chapter”.
The chapter heading starts automatically with the word “Chapter” followed by a space, Arabic number. These parts will be added automatically once the “Chapter” style has been chosen. Then a soft return should be added and then the actual chapter title. The soft return divides the chapter title into two lines, as shown in  REF _Ref511161919 \h Error: Reference source not found; however, both lines will still be considered as one item. To enter a soft return press both the shift and return keys at the same time.
Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC1: Main body chapter title
Appendix titles
They are the main heading of the appendices; they come after the Conclusion chapter. The appendix heading starts with the word “Appendix” followed by a space, an alphabetic letter, soft return, and then the actual appendix title.
Pagination
The page numbering starts from the cover page until the last page of that report. However, the first part of the report has different pagination system than the second part. The page numbers are placed at the bottom of the pages on the right side.
The cover page and front matter (first part) use roman numbers. However, the cover page number (i) should be hidden.
The remaining of the report (chapters and appendices) use Arabic numbers. The numbering starts from the first chapter (Introduction) with page number 1. This numbering will carry out until the end of the report.